### 5 - Messages in Real Time

A necessary part of a chat program is, of course, the ability to see the chat messages written to it.

hypercore has a function called `createReadStream` that returns a [Readable node stream](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_readable_streams) of feed entries / messages, starting from sequence number (seq) zero, and counting up.

> Streams are useful for reading data in **real-time**. Any time data is added to the database, you can detect these new entries and display them how you'd like to the user.

`feed.createReadStream(options)` has an option called `{live: true}`. If you set this, the stream will stay open and keep emitting new data as it is appended to the hypercore.

#### Exercise

Write code in `single-chat.js` that reads lines of input from the user, and uses `createReadStream` to write those messages back to the console as they are emitted from hypercore, e.g.

```sh
$ node single-chat.js
hello<ENTER>
<2018-11-05T14:26:000Z> cat-lover: hello
```

#### Tips

* Readable streams are also event emitters. They emit a `"data"` event whenever new data is available.
* Remember that you may have older entries from earlier exercises in your hypercore that don't conform to the chat message format! Can you skip non-chat-messages and not render them?
* You can read messages from `stdin` using this following snippet:

```js
process.stdin.on('data', function (data) {
  feed.append({
    type: 'chat-message',
    nickname: 'cat-lover',
    text: data.toString().trim(),
    timestamp: new Date().toISOString()
  })
})
```

* You can read messages out of the hypercore as they are added using a live read stream:

```js
feed.createReadStream({ live: true })
  .on('data', function (data) {
    console.log(data)
  })
```

Once you solve this exercise continue to [exercise 6](06.html)
