### 12: Building a Game

Now you've built a simple chat application :star:! In the next section, we will extend our chat application with more views to create a peer-to-peer game.

Eventually we'd like to add movable characters to the game, so it would be nice if the chat messages only took up a fixed portion along the bottom of the screen.

Two useful modules for managing a fullscreen terminal app's UI are [neat-log](https://github.com/neat-log/neat-log) and [txt-blit](https://github.com/noffle/txt-blit). Both should already be installed in your workshop folder.

Here is an example terminal app that draws the text `HELLO WORLD` animated in the middle of the screen. Type it into a file caled _ui.js_:

```js
var neatLog = require('neat-log')
var blit = require('txt-blit')

var neat = neatLog(view, { fullscreen: true })
neat.use(mainloop)

var termWidth = process.stdout.columns
var termHeight = process.stdout.rows

function view (state) {
  var screen = []

  var x = Math.floor(termWidth / 2) + state.xOffset
  var y = Math.floor(termHeight / 2)
  blit(screen, ['HELLO WORLD'], x, y)

  return screen.join('\n')
}

function mainloop (state, bus) {
  state.xOffset = 0
  setInterval(function () {
    state.xOffset = Math.floor(Math.sin(new Date().getTime() / 500) * 20)
    bus.emit('render')
  }, 5)
}
```

A common neat-log/txt-blit pattern is to write drawing functions that take a width and height parameter, that you can then draw to any dimensions.

For example, here is a draw function that returns a filled box of the given width/height:

```js
function drawFilledBox (w, h) {
    var across = new Array(w).fill('#').join('')
    var down = new Array(h).fill(across)
    return down
}
```

#### Exercise

Paste this into your code and call it in `view` using `blit(screen, drawFilledBox(10, 5), 0, 0)` to start.

Now, modify the function to draw the *outline* of a box (no text on the inside of the box; just the edges). This will become the border around the chat messages we'll draw next!

Next, modify the `blit()` call to draw the box so it fills the last 10 rows of the screen, and fills the full width of the screen.

#### Tips

- Check out the [neat-log](https://github.com/neat-log/neat-log) and [txt-blit](https://github.com/noffle/txt-blit) READMEs to try and understand what's going on.
- `process.stdout.columns` and `process.stdout.rows` give the current size of the terminal.

Once you solve this exercise continue to [exercise 13](13.md)
